*** Enhancing The Offer: Urgency *** 

“Deadlines. Drive. Decisions.”
Me

*Scarcity is a function of quantity. Urgency is a function of time.*

This is where you only limit when people can sign up, rather than how many. Having a defined deadline or cut off for a purchase or action to occur creates urgency. Frequently, scarcity and urgency are used together, but I will separate them out for you to illustrate the concepts.

I’m going to show you my four favorite ways of using urgency on a consistent basis, ethically: 1) Rolling Cohorts, 2) Rolling Seasonal Urgency, and 3) Promotional or Pricing Urgency 4) Exploding Opportunity. They will employ urgency in your business without being phony. My favorite way of doing this is having cohorts of clients start on a regular cadence. This has the added operational benefit of helping you create a choreographed onboarding experience for new clients. As you scale, this will become increasingly important.


1) Cohort-Based Rolling Urgency

For example, if you start clients every week (even in unlimited amounts), you can say:

“If you sign up today, I can get you in with our next group that kicks off on Monday, otherwise you’ll have to wait until our next kickoff date.”

If you wanted to juice it up a little bit, you could say:

“I actually had a client who signed up a few weeks ago drop out, so I have an opening for our next cohort that kicks off on Monday. If you are pretty sure you’re gonna do this sooner or later, might as well get in on it now so you can start reaping the rewards sooner rather than paying the same and waiting.”

Those two tweaks above have pushed so many sales over the edge by just reminding a potential customer that if they sign up, they will be starting on Monday, and if they do not, they will have to wait a week. It’s small things like this that nudge people to take the action they know they should take anyways.

Obviously the less frequently you kick off new customers, the more powerful this is. For example, if you only start clients two times a year, people will be very inclined to sign up, especially as the date approaches. Even starting new clients every other week can confer this urgency nudge.

What if I lose sales by turning business away?

Just like guarantees, there is always a fear that you will make less money by employing this strategy. We are afraid that we will lose sales we would have otherwise made. Every experienced marketer on the planet will tell you - it is a fear, and it is unfounded. The biggest sales on a week long campaign or launch happen in the last 4 hours of the last day (up to 50-60%). That means that the last 3% of the time allotted creates 50-60% of the sales...that’s completely illogical, but also unmistakably human. So, just like a guarantee, you will make more money from the many people who decided to take action than people who actually missed out because in reality, those people were never going to buy (heck, they didn't even buy when they had their fee to the fire, so why would they without?) Good to remember.


What to do if you just started a cohort and someone wants to buy….

You have two options: 1) you can offer them a speedy personalized onboarding to get them up to speed as a “bonus” for signing up today and still get them in. Or, my preference, 2) You can explain to them that since the next group starts in a little, they will have the advantage of having more time to review the materials, talk to their employees (for b2b products) or family members ( for b2c products). On top of that, they can have a more extended payment plan that you can only make available to them since the start date is so far out . . . an advantage that most clients do not get. In the end, remember, you always have the advantage because you are the one who calls the shots.


2) Rolling Seasonal Urgency

In a digital setting, having actual sign up date countdowns is very useful. But make sure they are real. If they aren’t, you’ll lose credibility and just look like every other wannabe marketer. This is very common with internet businesses that use “launch” models. I personally love having the dates that I am running a promotion through on my landing pages and in my copy. I want it to be visible everywhere. The nice thing is that you can always fire up another ad campaign and a new landing page with new dates and be right as rain. You will see your conversions go through the roof, and it takes maybe five minutes of editing — well worth the time investment.

Example: Our New Year Promotion ends Jan 30!

Next Month: Our Valentines Lovers Promo Ends Feb 30!

Next Month: Our Sexy By Spring Special Ends March 31!

Next Month: Our Fools in Love April Promo Ends April 30!

The actual promotion may be the same, but naming it something different “by season” gives you a “real” differentiator that gives you a start and a finish. Deadlines drive decisions. By simply having these, you can point to them and let human beings push themselves over the edge so as not to miss out.

Pro Tip - Local Businesses: This is my number one strategy for local businesses. They must vary their marketing more frequently than national advertisers. Putting a new wrapper with a date on the same core service gives you urgency and novelty that will consistently outperform the “same old” campaigns.


3) Pricing or Bonus-Based Urgency

This is another way of creating urgency using your actual offer or promotion/pricing structure as the thing they could miss out on (kind of brilliant!). It allows businesses that sell clients year round to still use urgency. For example, “Yes, let’s get you started today so you can take advantage of the discount you came in for. I’m not sure how long we will be running it as we change them every 4 weeks or so, and this is one of the better ones we have run in a while.”

This creates some fear of missing out on the promotion (or discount or bonuses), rather than your actual service. It would be a lie to say that if you own a roofing business you won’t service them if they buy after the date. But, if you talk specifically about the promotion you can often elicit the same urgency on buying in the prospect while maintaining your integrity — win-win. You can interchange a pricing promotion, discount, or added bonuses like free install or free onboarding or an extra workshop (valued at $1,000) if they buy now. These are all things you can swap around your core offer to create urgency.

Pro Tip - Clean Your Pipeline With Every Price Change: If you ever really are planning on raising your prices (hopefully soon if you are reading this book!) then you can always clean out your pipeline by letting people know “The price is going up! So get in now!” Never raise your prices without letting people know. It shows a position of strength and will give you a nice little influx of cash from the people in the pipeline who were on the fence.


4) Exploding Opportunity

On occasion you will be exposing the prospect to an arbitrage opportunity. The opportunity itself has a ticking time clock, as all great opportunities do. Every second someone delays, they miss out on disproportionate gains.

Example: If I was explaining an arbitrage opportunity between buying products on ebay and selling them on amazon, this market inefficiency would over time correct itself. The sooner someone acts the better it will be for them. This could be true for selling someone on the opportunity of trading crypto currencies, buying a stock, getting into a new platform to advertise before competitors jump on the bandwagon. Highly competitive job environments often get job offers that are “exploding offers” everyday they wait to take the job, their pay or bonuses decrease. This forces prospects to make fast decisions rather than try and “wait it out” to see if they get a better offer.

All of these examples show opportunities that decay with time, so if you find yourself in front of an opportunity like this, make sure to emphasize it!

**Summary Points**

Adding a deadline and incorporating one or multiple forms of urgency will get more people to take action than would otherwise. I have employed all four of these methods with great effectiveness. I suggest you do the same. Next up….Bonuses!

Free Gift #7: Bonus Tutorial: How to Ethically Use Scarcity & Urgency

If you want to walk through some live (ethical) examples of scarcity & urgency with me, go to Acquisition.com/training/offers and select “Scarcity & Urgency” to watch a short video tutorial. You’ll also be able to grab my Scarcity Urgency Checklist I use when creating offers. As always, it’s absolutely free. Enjoy.