*** Enhancing The Offer: Naming *** 

Implicit-egotism effect: we are generally drawn to the things and people that most resemble us.


Like the tree that falls in the forest that no one hears, having a Grand Slam Offer will not make you money if no one finds out about it. The goal must be that upon hearing about your offer, your ideal prospects are interested enough to take action. Naming it properly is an integral part of this process.

Here’s an example. Say you see a “Free Six-Week Stress Release Challenge” and a “Float Tank Center Session.” While they may be the same thing, just named differently, you’re much more likely to respond to the first.

Now here’s the rub: over time, offers fatigue. And in local markets, they fatigue even faster. Why? In a local market, it costs relatively little to reach an entire population. On most platforms you can reach 1,000 people for about $20. So, if there are 200,000 people in your addressable area, then it would only cost you $10,000 to reach all of them one time.

Important disclaimer: reaching an audience one time in no way means an offer is fatigued. Most people don’t even notice an offer on the first mention. That’s why you need to create new creative (videos, images) and new hooks, stories, and copy around the same offers. You can still use offers for a long time. But when we’re talking about years of use, not months, offers can eventually fatigue.

Over time you can rename the offer to refresh it. This one concept will get you leads forever. I mean it. So pay attention. We are not changing the actual offer. We are only changing the wrapping paper.

If you’ve put together a bundled offering, you’re still ultimately going to be doing the same things. The work you do, services you provide, and products you offer will remain unchanged as the name shifts. Again, we’re simply changing the wrapper.

Here’s the simplest formula I’ve come up with for this process:

***Important Note: Not all these components are mandatory. You will typically use three to five of them in naming a program or service. If you can fit them all in, great, but it’s likely the name will become too long.***

The shorter and punchier the better. So it's a balance between brevity and specificity.

The only way to really know what works is to write the names out and test them.

Let’s run through the components now.

*Author Note: Marketing Theory*

If you like understanding the concepts behind my chosen M-A-G-I-C formula. Each roughly translates to: Attention (M-Magnet), Discrimination (A-Avatar), Purpose (G-Goal), Timeline (I-Interval), and Method (C-Container).




Make a Magnetic **“Reason Why”**

We start the name with a word or phrase that tells people the “reason why” we are running our promotion.

I like to tell people to think like a fraternity party planner. When I was in college, we had a party once because a guy got his wisdom teeth removed. I say this to say. . .the “reason why” can literally be anything.

It really doesn't matter so long as you believe it. And you can even make a joke of it like the fraternity example. But this should answer one or both of the following questions: Why are they making this great offer? or Why should I respond to this offer?/What’s in it for me?

***Examples***: Free, 88% off, Giveaway; 88% off, Spring, Summer, Back To School; Grand Opening; New Management; New Building; Anniversary; Halloween; New Year.

*Note*: I will discuss how to monetize free and discounted offers in Volume III: Money Models.

**Announce Your Avatar**

This component calls out your ideal avatar: who you are looking for and who you are not looking for as a client. You want to be as specific as possible, but no more. When in a local area, the more local you can make your headline, the more it will convert. So don't do a city, try and go to the sub market, or hyper local area. Not Baltimore but Towson, MD. Not Chicago, but Hinsdale, Etc.

***Examples***: Bee Cave Dentists, Rolling Hills Moms, Brick & Mortar Businesses, Salon Owners, Retired Athletes, Brooklyn Busy Executives

**Give Them A Goal**

This is where you articulate your prospect’s dream outcome. It can be a single word or a phrase. It can be an event, a feeling, an experience, or an outcome, anything that would excite them. The more specific and tangible, the better.

***Examples***: Pain Free, Celebrity Smile, 1st Place, Never Out Of Breath, Perfect Product, Grand Slam Offer, Little Black Dress, Double Your Profit, First Client, High Ticket, 7 Figure, 100k, Etc.

**Indicate a Time Interval**

You’re just letting people know the duration to expect here. This gives an example of how long your results will take to achieve.

*Note*: If you’re making any sort of quantifiable claim (like income gain or weight loss) most platforms will not approve this type of messaging with a stated duration to achievement because it implies a guarantee. It implies they are going to get this outcome in a period of time, which goes against many platform rules. So dont give a quantifiable outcome with the duration unless your platform allows it. That being said, duration is a powerful component of a Grand Slam Offer and you should definitely use it anywhere you don't need to deal with compliance. Alternatively, if the goal you help them with is not a “claim” per se, then absolutely use a time interval. “$10,000 in 10 days” vs “Make Your First Sale in 10 Days.”

***Examples***: AA Minutes, BB Hours, CC Days, DD Weeks, Z Months. “4 Hour” “21 Day” “6 Week” “3 Month”

**Complete With A Container Word**

The container word denotes that this offer is a bundle of lots of things put together. It’s a system. It’s something that can’t be held up to a commoditized alternative.

***Examples***: Challenge, Blueprint, Bootcamp, Intensive, Incubator, Masterclass, Program, Detox, Experience, Summit, Accelerator, Fast Track, Shortcut, Sprint, Launch, Slingshot, Catapult, Explosion, System, Getaway, Meetup, Transformation, Mastermind, Launch, Game Plan, Deep Dive, Workshop, Comeback, Rebirth, Attack, Assault, Reset, Solution, Hack, Cheatcode, Liftoff, Etc.

**Pro Tip: Find Time To Rhyme**

Good rhymes stick in people’s minds. Rhyme your program name to win the game.

Google “rhyming dictionary” for an easy shortcut. Note - Don’t try and force it. It’s not a requirement, it’s just a “nice-to-have”.

Ex: Six-Pack Fast Track, 5-Day Book Print Sprint, Marriage Thrive Deep Dive, 12-Week 2-Putt Shortcut, 12-Month No-Debt Reset, Celebrity Butt Shortcut, Get Some Ass Masterclass (just thought it was funny), etc. You get the idea.

**Pro Tip: Alliteration**

Alliteration is when you make all (or most) of the words start with the same letter or sound.

An alternative approach to rhyming is to use alliteration when naming your program. This is easier for most people than rhyming. Again, you do not need to rhyme or alliterate. Don’t force it.

Ex: Make Money Masterclass, Change Your Life Challenge, Big Booty Bootcamp, Debt Detox, Real Estate Reset, Life Coach Liftoff, Etc.




I might be weird, but naming offers is one of my favorite parts of this process. What I want to highlight, yet again, is that your actual money model, pricing, and services will remain largely unchanged. Changing the wrapper simply means changing the exterior perception of what your Grand Slam Offer is.

Below you’ll find a few examples of named offers for different industries.

*Wellness*

Free Six-Week Lean-By-Halloween Challenge
88% Off 12-Week Bikini Blueprint
Free 21-Day Mommy Makeover
60-minute Make Your Friends Jealous Model Hair System
Six-Week Stress-Release Challenge
(Free!) Bend Over Pain Free in 42 Days . . . Healing Fast Track



*Doctors*

$2,000-Off Celebrity Smile Transformation
Lakeway Moms - $1,500 Off Your Kids Braces
Lakeway Moms - 12 Months To A Perfect Smile ($1000 off for 15 families)
Back to School Free Braces Giveaway
Grand Opening Free X-Ray & Treatment - Instant Relief
Back Sore No More! 90 Day Rapid Healing Intensive (81% off!)
Tightness? $1 Massage New Client Summer Special



*Coaching*

5 Clients in 5 Days Blueprint
7F Agency 12 Week Intensive
14 Day Find Your Perfect Product Launch
Fill Your Gym in 30 Days (Free!)



I could keep listing these, but hopefully you get the idea. Now it’s time for you to give it a try for your Grand Slam Offer.

Again, you don't necessarily have to use all the power components of the headline. Using three to five will typically create something that is more unique and desirable, allowing you to separate yourself from the competitive field and create an offer that will get clicks and engagement, and ultimately make you money.

Furthermore, you don't need to do them in the M-A-G-I-C order. Do what sounds punchier to you. After doing this for a while, you’ll see that some offers convert better than others. That’s natural. And every once in a while you’ll get a name that takes off like a rocket. I honestly have no idea why some names win and others do not. So, don’t be emotional about it. Keep trying. Keep striking out. Then try more. You’ll get there.

Now that you have several working names for your offer, you can use two to three of your best names in your advertising campaign. Quickly note the winner, then use that as a control to test against with new names. That is how you promote.

**Pro Tip - Name Sub Items & Bonuses**

Use the magic headline formula for each item in your stack and bundle. It will automatically enhance the value of your offerings simply by naming in a way that resonates with your prospects.


***What Happens When Offers Fatigue***

As you market offers, you will need to create variations over time as the tastes of the market change over time. Here’s the order in which you will change things to keep lead flow consistent.

Change the creative (the images and pictures in your ads)
Change the body copy in your ads
Change the headline - the “wrapper” of your offer
Free 6 Week Lean Challenge to Free 6 Week Tone Challenge
Holiday Hangover to New Year New You
Change the duration of your offer
Change the enhancer of your offer (your free/discount component)
Change the monetization structure, the series of offers you give prospects, and the price points associated with them (Book II)

I follow this variation framework because most of the time it’s the first handful of items that need to be changed. Typically, they need to be changed again and again without touching anything on the bottom of the list.

**For example**, when ads fatigue, we don’t change our entire business; we just run the same ad again with a different video or image. Once that stops working, we change it again. Eventually you need to change the words in your ads. And repeat the process. Then, and only then, would you change the wrapper.

Let’s say we change from a Six-Week Stress Release Challenge to a 42-Day Relaxing Holidays Challenge for a massage center. Same core offer, just a different wrapper. Then, of course, you could change the duration of your offer - six weeks to 28 days or eight weeks, etc. The lower on the list you go, the more operationally heavy it is, so really be sure you have exhausted the earlier “lighter” ways of varying your offer.

Once you’ve monetized an offer, rarely should you change it. Just rinse and repeat over and over and over again. This can be hard because we are entrepreneurs and love change. Change here usually just creates inefficiency and operational drag, costing you money. No bueno.

So use your entrepreneurial ADD on the “wrapper” first - the “look and feel” of the offer (copy, creative, headlines). Then change the seasonality of the offer. Then change the duration. If you’re still stuck, change what you are giving away for free or discount. Change the entire machine behind it only as a last resort and for a darn good reason, especially once you get traction.

But how do you get initial traction? Good question. Try the offer structure and headline that you think has the highest likelihood of working. Then stick with it.

And if they don’t convert at first, don’t worry. You’ll get better. Oftentimes, if you are using these types of models, many of them will work. In that case, stick with the one that gives you the highest return. You can also rotate between offers if it doesn't create lots of operational drag for your type of business. This is the ultimate position of power. You have multiple “aces in the hole” that you can play at any time, which keeps your marketing converting at an even higher level.

**Author Note - Marketing Local Businesses**

Ironically, local business marketing is both easier and harder than national level marketing. It’s easier to get to work, but harder to keep working or scale. And the reason is - in local markets, it’s easier because there’ is trust in the familiar. So selling in- person at higher prices in a local market is inherently easier. It means you will convert a much higher percentage of your leads. This makes marketing work most of the time.

The downside of local marketing is that offers fatigue rapidly because there is only a limited radius that a local business can serve. To reference an earlier concept, the TAM (total addressable market) for a brick & mortar is only its immediate radius (most times). So by extension, the smaller the radius, the faster offers fatigue. This is the double-edged sword of local.

Learning to rapidly variate my offers, headlines, and creative when I had my local businesses was a cornerstone skill that made my expansion to national level advertising much easier for me. So if you are in a local market, just remember you aren’t going to change the value stack of your offer. You are just going to change the way it looks to the marketplace in your marketing.

**Naming Summary**

We must appropriately name our offer to attract the right avatar to our business. True to the moniker, people do judge a book by its cover. Half-ass naming your product or offering can ruin conversions. Don’t fall victim to lazy naming. Follow the steps here to name your product or service offering and watch the same offer get 2x, 3x, or 10x the response rate. You’ll believe it when you see it - I know I did.

**Enhancing Your Offer Section Recap**

Congrats! You figured out how to make your offer valuable, how to break your services into component parts, and how to rebundle them into a more valuable whole.

You added a guarantee to get more people to buy your offer and actually consume it so they could be more successful.

You presented it with urgency and scarcity to get more people to desire it.

And now you’ve named your offer so it attracts the right prospects and repels the bad ones, all while containing a big promise everyone can understand.

But we covered a lot, so I want to give you a quick breather before we forge into Book II to help you attract clients and monetize your offer.

Free Gift # 10 BONUS: Create The Perfect Name For Your Product

Naming your product properly helps your avatar know the product is for them and is valuable and will solve their problems. If you want to do this live with me, go to Acquisition.com/training/offers and select “Naming Products” to watch a short video tutorial so you can start using this in your business to make more sales ASAP. I also made a Free Naming Formula Checklist for you to use and reuse with your team. It also works for naming promotions. As always, it’s absolutely free. Enjoy.
